So now I also want to display a little map preview here and there are different ways of doing that of
course and later will also add interactive map to this app.
For now it just won't have a static image.
So like a map snapshot and the cool thing is Google has an API for us which generates such snapshots.
You can google for Google Maps static API to find the official documentation where you can learn all
about that of course.
And in the end using that API is super super straightforward.
You just need to send the request to this you are L and this already gives you back an image so you
can just use this link in on an image component and you're good.
The only tricky thing here is this API key thing there you need your API credentials and for that you
need an API key.
Now for this you can just click on your API key here and generate one and now you can select a project
which you already have or you create a new project for Dad.
You need to cancel here and instead scroll down a bit further to this.
Getting Started activate the API apart here and click on get started here.
Now once you do that you're taking to the Google Maps platform console where you can now and able the
different Google Maps features you want to use and here I'm interested in maps which will later help
us use this interactive dynamic app on Android and I'm interested in places.
So these two things should be checked.
We don't need to roots because we're not building any navigation features here with that we can click
on continuous like the project and now you will use like the existing project or simply create a new
one and all trade and you won't hear a name and react a complete guide but you can named whatever you
want click next year
and wait for this to be generated.
This should be relatively fast and now we're worried about pricing Wildstar.
This is loading.
You can generally use this for free but you need a billing account.
That's what I'm getting ask for here.
You need a Google account of course.
And on this Google account you need to have a credit card in order to use it.
Otherwise you can't use that unfortunately it is what it is.
So you need a credit card.
You need to have a billion account set up in your Google account and then you can use this locked in
google account for this project which is what I'm doing here with debt enabled.
You still will be able to use that for free.
You got a very generous free tier and attached you find a link to the pricing of the Google Maps platform
and only if you breach certain limits which will not breach for a little usage which we have here in
these videos only if you would breach these limits you would pay.
Now would still be aware that there can be a point where you need to pay and that it depends on how
much you use the API and therefore definitely check out the pricing docs.
Now here I got this all enabled now and I'm just finishing this up.
And by the end you should be presented with an API key which of course all invalidate after these recordings.
So you can use mine but you should take yours instead.
Now this is the API key which you need to insert here into this you are L.
So now I'll just copy this entire you are L here and moved it over into our code and there.
I now want your output image here which points out that you are L because as I mentioned this is how
you can get this image as you are L returns a image.
Now what I'll do therefore is all create a new component here which I'll name map preview J.S. because
I'll also use it in another place of the app later where I import react from react where I then import
image and style sheet from React Native like this
then here I'll create my map preview component which receives props of course unsurprisingly which needs
to return some J is X later and set up some styles here with stylish she'd create
and of course also export this map preview component.
Now in the here I want to generate this you are L which I just talked about so here D.
Image preview you are l should be generated and that can be done by using back tax here so that I can
add dynamic content into the text easily and then copy in that you are all you just copied from the
documentation here.
Make sure it's all in one line because by default it's not.
So make sure it's all in one line.
Otherwise this won't work.
And of course there are a couple of segments you need to replace.
For example here the center equals part but default this points at the Brooklyn Bridge and you can enter
addresses here but you can also enter latitude longitude pairs here.
So we'll all do here is all dynamically add two pieces of information here separated by a comma and
the first thing is the latitude here.
I expect to get this on my props.
I expect to get a location prop and of course this can be any prop name of your choice which generally
have a lat key and here I want to have a long key LNG key as well so that will be the latitude and longitude
of the location.
I want to preview now and assume factor all that is to 14.
You can experiment with different factors does influences basically how far to map assumed in or out.
You can also play around with your with your size here.
Now since I will have a map preview container that I'll typically use with a height of two hundred I'll
set the high to 200 here and I will set the width therefore to 400 here.
Of course you can use a bigger size here than you'll use for the container to display the image later.
Just be aware that if you are fetching a super large image here it will of course be too large.
Too much data to download it will load slower and you might not need that.
So you should aim for a size of the map image here which kind of fits to container where you want to
display it doesn't have to be the exact same size but roughly no map type is how the map should be displayed.
You could use satellite here but I'll stick to the standard road map and now you can also add markers
to that map.
Now there are a couple of markers set up in this dummy snippet.
I'll get rid of all of them but one so that I just have markers here.
Color red.
A label of a.
This can be a single character here like ABC and then the latitude and longitude where this marker should
be placed and of course that's again prop start location.
Let then here a comma and thereafter replace this number with props the location dot LNG.
Placing such a marker is optional but of course I want to show the user where this is.
Now I need the API key so I'll copy this key which was generated here and replace this here.
Now I can't paste it in like this but actually I want to manage it isn't a separate file because I will
use that API key in other places of the app as well.
So here all create a new file which will name any of J.S. for environment to set up an environment variables
and they're all set up an object with my Google API key and that should be this value here and then
I can export this and of course the effort that should have a name VARs equals and then export VARs
here.
So with that I can simply import from that end file and that's just what I'll do here.
Import env from the end file here and that just stands for environment variables as I said and now dynamically
inject this here.
So now we have one place where we can change that key and where we can also then imported from and all
the different places of our app.
So here all dynamically inject and stored Google API key.
So with that I got the image preview you are all set up.
Now in this component we of course need to return the image preview and that generally is dead.
View I have here in the location pickers all grab it from there and added in the map preview like this
though the fallback content in there.
I actually want to pass dad in from outside so I'll cut this out again and move that back into the location
picker.
However not like this but instead here.
Import this newly added map preview components import that from dots slash map preview.
So this new component we're currently working on.
Add this here.
Map preview and then have this check for his fetching and d indicator and the fallback text in here.
So in map preview I will therefore only have props children in here to output what's added between the
opening and closing tag but that's just a fallback content of course.
I do care about putting the real preview here of for Dad we have to make sure that image preview URL
actually also can be empty in case no place has been chosen yet so create a variable image preview you
or L and just assign a value here.
And I do want to assign a value if prop start location is set because that also cannot be set in case
we haven't picked a location yet and now image preview URL is either empty or it's this you or L depending
on whether we have a location passed in on the location prop and we can now use this down there to output
something.
And by the way since I'm using view here of course we should all to make sure we import.
View.
Now how do I use this you know.
Well if we do have it I want to use it to output an image.
Otherwise all showed us props children fallback content.
So here we can check for props.
Location of death set.
I know I'll have a image you are L as well.
We could of course also just check the image you are ELA existence and if it is a set I'll put an image
here.
If it's not set output props children like this so I'll put my fallback content.
No the image here will receive some styling map.
Image and a source and the source here takes a you are eye which points at image preview URL because
that will be a network you are and network image right.
So now let's just bring over to styles from the location picker.
I can take a map preview but I only want to bring over to justify content part and actually pass in
the rest and manual here and merge it's all still pass and styles of map preview from inset my location
picker and in the map preview I now want to merged as with my styles I'm setting up here so here I'll
actually wrapped as into an object where I pull out all the styles setup and map preview in here and
merge in all styles set up on this style prop so that we can get cells from outside as well and merged
and with our internal cells and now 40 internal styles on the map preview as I just said I'll have justified
content and a line items in here.
And for the image itself.
So for the map image there I want to set this to take all the available width and height it can get
and we need to set this because it's a network image as you learned for those you need to set the width
and height of the image component.
Now with that we have the map preview component which you were displaced as map image or our fallback
content which is passed in from outside.
And it does so by checking the location prop.
So in the place where we use the map preview component which of course is the location picker we need
to pass in this location prop and the location prop.
If we check the map preview Indian has to be an object with a latitude and longitude or a lat and LNG
key so therefore back in location picture.
I want to pass in such a prop here and indeed that's exactly what we manage here with the pick location
which is of course no coincidence that is an object with latitude and longitude or it's undefined initially
and we do handle this case and the map preview component as well.
If it's undefined we just showed a fallback content which is passed in from outside.
So to location we can just pass and the picked location with Dad we should now have a setup where we
actually are able to see a preview of the place.
So now here we see the fallback content.
But if I now click on get user location we see the spinner and then we see a real snapshot of the place
we picked.
As I mentioned this is not where I am sitting right now.
This is just some dummy place the emulator it gives us the same on Android.
If I take a location here.
Now this is actually the Google headquarters which are selected by default there.
So this works now as a next step.
I want to make sure that we can also pick this place on a map instead of just locating us.